# Multi-Row Header 
_<since 2.0>_

You can customize Vuetable to display more than one table header row via 
- `tableHeader` scoped slot, or
- `header-rows` prop using header component

By default, Vuetable uses `VuetableRowHeader` component to render table header. 
It will iterate through each field to display the provided `title`.

## Using `tableHeader` scoped slot

When you define a scoped slot named `tableHeader`, this will completely replace 
the header auto-generated by Vuetable. 

Vuetable will also pass the normalized `fields` definition to the `tableHeader` 
slot. You will have complete control on how the table header row is rendered, 
you can even write a component to render your own table header. It's your choice.

```html
<vuetable>
  <template slot="tableHeader" slot-scope="{ fields }">
    <!-- define your own table row -->
    <tr>
      <th>...</th>
      <th>...</th>
    </tr>
  </template>
</vuetable>
```

::: warning
However, please note that you will also lose the ability to interact with column 
header (e.g. click for sorting).
:::

Luckily, Vuetable uses `VuetableRowHeader` component to generated the default 
table header row that also handle user interaction. That means you can also use
it in your `tableHeader` slot as well.

```vue{7,14,19}
<template>
  <vuetable ref="vuetable"
    api-url="..."
    :fields="..."
  >
    <template slot="tableHeader">
      <vuetable-row-header></vuetable-row-header>
    </template>
  </vuetable>
</template>

<script>
import Vuetable from 'vuetable-2/src/components/Vuetable.vue'
import VuetableRowHeader from 'vuetable-2/src/components/VuetableRowHeader.vue'

export default {
  components: {
    Vuetable,
    VuetableRowHeader
  },
  //...
}
</script>
```

See example [here](https://codesandbox.io/s/v05rx0nmj7?module=%2Fsrc%2Fcomponents%2FMyVuetable.vue)


## Using `header-rows` prop

Another way to render multi-row header is to use `header-rows` prop.

By default, it is an array containing the only value `VuetableRowHeader`. That means
it will delegate the rendering of table header row to `VuetableRowHeader` component.

But since it is an array, you can write your own component and add it to the array of
`header-rows` prop. Vuetable will use the component in the array to render the table 
header row one by one in sequence specified.

The component can also be as simple as this.

```vue
<template>
  <tr>
    <th colspan="2">Group AAA</th>
    <th colspan="4">Group BBB</th>
  </tr>
</template>
```

See example [here](https://codesandbox.io/s/136l07q114?module=%2Fsrc%2Fcomponents%2FMyVuetable.vue)

## Communicating with Vuetable

If you need to communicate with the parent Vuetable, you can either create a
computed property and return `this.$parent`, which is what `VuetableRowHeader` does.

```js
export default {
  //...
  computed: {
    vuetable() {
      return this.$parent
    }
  }
}
```

Or, you can emit an `vuetable:header-event` event containing two parameters as 
followed:
  - type `String`   
    A named string used to distinguish the origin of the event, e.g. the name of 
    your header row component.

  - payload `Object`    
    An object containing anything that is necessary or relevant to the outside 
    component.

Vuetable will relay this event out from itself, so that the outside component can
capture and used it.

```vue{4,13-17}
<template>
  <vuetable
    //..
    @vuetable:header-event="onHeaderEvent"
  ></vuetable>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  //...
  methods: {
    //...
    onHeaderEvent (type, payload) {
      // if (type === 'my-header-row') {
      //   .. do something ..
      // }
    }
  }
}
</script>
```
